# searchEngine
CS300-Data Structures HW#1

CS300-Data Structures Homework1 In this homework, we are going to learn about how search engines such as Google do their searches really fast. These search engines search hundreds of millions web pages to see if they have the words that you have typed, and they can do this for thousands of users at a given time. In order to do these searches really fast, search engines such as Google do a lot of what we call preprocessing of the pages they search; that is, they transform the contents of a web page (which for the purposes of this homework, we will assume to consist of only strings) into a structure that can be searched very fast. Here is the basic idea: • Let us assume we have millions of documents, D1, D2, . . . D19234678, . . ., each consisting of hundreds or thousands of words. We identify each document by its number, e.g., 1, 2, . . . 19234678, . . . .

• Since almost all the time these documents contain material in a human language, many words (such as the, or geliyor ) most likely appear in many of the documents in a given language. Some words such as the or bir appear in perhaps all documents in a given language, while words such as Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch1 or esneyemeyense2 appear in relatively few documents.

• For each unique word, we construct a linked list of document numbers representing the set of documents that word appears in. We ignore details such as how many times a word appears in that document or where in the document it appears in, etc. For instance if the word Sabanci appears in documents D2, D4, D6, we associate the list (2, 4, 6) with the string Sabanci. So, preprocessing involves finding ALL unique words AND creating a list of ALL documents numbers for the documents that contain that word somewhere.

• Once we finish preprocessing, we are ready to answer queries. Suppose we want to find all documents that contain the words Sabanci and University. We first identify the list of documents containing Sabanci and then identify the list of documents containing University and then intersect these, to get the list of documents containing both strings, and return the documents corresponding to these results as the answer. Of course, if you have more keywords, you keep on intersecting the result of the first intersection with the list for the third keyword, etc. Here is how we expect you to attack this problem:

• Our main database of strings will be implemented as a list.3 Each object we store in that list will be a pair of strings and their associated document lists. If in addition, University appears in documents D3, D6, D9, D12, and bilgisayar appears in documents D6, D9, D17, D21, our database will conceptually look like Figure 1.

• You should see that we use lists for two purposes: we use lists to store the list of documents associated with each string and we use lists to store the string-document list pairs. You may want to make sure that that list sorted based on the string values. It is also important that the list containing the document numbers associated with a string, is sorted in ascending order of the documents numbers.

• When you are given a query - a series of words - you search the database to locate the list nodes containing the words, and then retrieve their associated document lists and then intersect them.
